Page 189: Problem 2
For each of the following two statements, decide whether it is true or false.
If it is true, give a short explanation. If it is false, give a counterexample.
    (a) Suppose we are given an instance of the Minimum Spanning Tree
    Problem on a graph G, with edge costs that are all positive and
    distinct. Let T be a minimum spanning tree for this instance. Now
    suppose we replace each edge cost ce by its square, c2
    e, thereby creating a new instance of the problem with the same graph
    but different costs.
        True or false? T must still be a minimum spanning tree for this
        new instance.

True. Because all edge costs are positive, there will be no negative weights switching to positive. Additionally,
because x^2 is an increasing function and the minimum spanning tree contains all the shortest paths between two nodes,
there will never be a situation in which f(x) > f(x+1) when f(x) = x^2 and all values are positive.

    (b) Suppose we are given an instance of the Shortest s-t Path Problem
    on a directed graph G. We assume that all edge costs are positive
    and distinct. Let P be a minimum-cost s-t path for this instance.
    Now suppose we replace each edge cost ce by its square, c2
    e, thereby creating a new instance of the problem with the same graph
    but different costs.
        True or false? P must still be a minimum-cost s-t path for this
        new instance.

False. Consider two paths between s and t, one with 5 edges with weight 1, and another with 2 edges with weight two.
Prior to replacing each edge with its square, the latter path would be shorter. After replacing, the former path would
be shorter.



Page 199: Problem 20
Given that they’re going to maintain this key property, however, they
otherwise want to keep as few roads clear as possible. One year, they hit
upon the following conjecture:
    The minimum spanning tree of G, with respect to the edge weights ae, is a
    minimum-altitude connected subgraph.

(In an earlier problem, we claimed that there is a unique minimum spanning tree
when the edge weights are distinct. Thus, thanks to the assumption that all ae
are distinct, it is okay for us to speak of the minimum spanning tree.)

Initially, this conjecture is somewhat counterintuitive, since the minimum spanning
tree is trying to minimize the sum of the values ae, while the goal of minimizing
altitude seems to be asking for a fairly different thing. But lacking an argument
to the contrary, they begin considering an even bolder second conjecture:
    A subgraph (V, E) is a minimum-altitude connected subgraph if and only if
    it contains the edges of the minimum spanning tree.

Note that this second conjecture would immediately imply the first one,
since a minimum spanning tree contains its own edges.
    So here’s the question.
    (a) Is the first conjecture true, for all choices of G and distinct altitudes
    ae? Give a proof or a counterexample with explanation.

This first conjecture is true:
Minimizing the sum of edge values is essentially the same problem as minimizing the altitude when the sum
of the edge values are minimized on an edge to edge basis. Choosing a non-minimal altitude at any one step
may result in a higher altitude path overall.

The minimum height path from any town i will always take the lowest path out of the town that is connected
to a new destination without backtracking. From this next town i+1, the minimum height path will again take
the lowest path out of the town that leads to other towns, since any choice of a higher path may result in a
higher maximum path height between towns i and j. Because the minimum height path always chooses the lowest
path out of the visited towns, this problem satisfies the optimal substructure property of a minimum spanning
tree. This means that the algorithm for finding the minimum-altitude subgraph is the same as the algorithm
for finding the MST, meaning the minimum-altitude subgraph will be the same as the MST.


    (b) Is the second conjecture true, for all choices of G and distinct altitudes ae?
    Give a proof or a counterexample with explanation.

The second conjecture is true:
Assume a minimum altitude subgraph, A, which is not the minimum spanning tree, T, of a graph, G.
Because A != T, there exists minimum altitude paths between towns i and j in A with a maximum height
H which is < the corresponding height between the towns i and j in T, H0. Considering every connected
path between adjacent nodes, assuming H < H0, implies that at some point H0 is not choosing the minimum
path between adjacent nodes. This is a contridiction, since the MST always chooses the minimum path between
adjacent nodes.



4. Properties of Dijkstra’s Algorithm
We assume that G = (V, E) is a weighted directed graph, and s  ∈ V is a designated
source  node.  Denote  by  𝛿(𝑢)  the  minimum  distance  from  s  to  u  in  the  graph
(measured in terms of the sum of edge weights).

At  any  point  in  an  execution  of  Dijkstra’s  algorithm  between  iterations  of  the
main  loop,  we  define  S  to  be  the  subset  of  V  consisting  of  the  nodes  that  have
already been processed, and Q = V – S. For any node u, d[u] is the shortest path
estimate of u, that is, the minimum weight of a path from s to u in which all nodes,
except possibly the final node u, are in S. Prove the following two properties:
    (a) After any number of iterations of the main loop, if u is any node in V, then
    d[u] ≥ 𝛿(𝑢).

Because d[u] is the shortest path estimate for a node u, d[u] = 𝛿(𝑢) after the node has been processed and the minimum
path is known. Therefore, d[u] is never < 𝛿(𝑢) because 𝛿(𝑢) is the true shortest path. Prior to being processed,
d[u] = 𝛿(v) + w(v, u). If v is not part of the minimum path to u, this implies d[u] ≥ 𝛿(𝑢), since 𝛿(𝑢) != 𝛿(v) + w(v, u)
and d[u] is never < 𝛿(𝑢).

    (b) After any number of iterations of the main loop, if u ∈ S and v ∈ Q, then 𝛿(𝑢) ≤ 𝛿(𝑣)

Because v has yet to have been processed, the current shortest path estimate d[v] ≥ 𝛿(v) as shown above. If v is about
to be processed d[v] = 𝛿(w) + weight(w, v) = 𝛿(v). There exists a situation when 𝛿(𝑢) = 𝛿(w) + weight(w, u) and
weight(w, u) and weight(w, v) are identical. In this situation, 𝛿(𝑢) = 𝛿(𝑣). If in this same situation,
weight(w, u) > weight(w, v), this would contradict Dijkstra's algorithm and would never be the case, implying
𝛿(𝑢) is never > 𝛿(𝑣). If weight(w, u) < weight(w, v), then 𝛿(𝑢) ≤ 𝛿(𝑣). Because Dijkstra's algorithm finds the shortest
paths first, all other paths to v must be longer than paths to u because u ∈ S and v ∈ Q.

5. Consider the selecting breakpoints problem discussed in our class.
    (a) Prove that the problem has optimal substructure.

Consider setting breakpoints evenly spaced out at distances equal to the maximum distance able to be
traveled at one time C. Now consider infinately many breakpoints between each multiple n of C. For any
breakpoint B < C, (n-1)C + B < nC, and any ((n-1)C+B)+C < (n+1)C. This means that any choice of B < C
could also be reached by choosing B=C. Now consider the subproblem of a trip of length C. Any choice other
than C will result in more stops being taken then what is required. The next subproblem from C to 2C can be
considered in the same way, thus showing optimal substructure.

    (b)  In  class,  we  prove  the  greedy  algorithm  is  correct  using  the  "greedy  stays
    ahead" argument. In this exercise, you are asked to use exchange arguments
    to show that a greedy choice is used in some optimal solution.

Assume an optimal path with intervals given by the vector Fn. Now for any interval in Fn, exchange an element
fa for a non-greedy choice of this element and reevaluate the rest of the vector. If a = n and fn = C, the
non-greedy choice fa would require an additional step, since fa < fn for any non-greedy choice. Any choice of
interval a and any non-greedy choice of fa could only result in additional steps being required.

6. Consider the problem of making change for n cents using the fewest number of
coins. Assume that each coin’s value is an integer. Describe  a  greedy  algorithm
to  make  change  consisting  of  quarters,  dimes,  nickels,  and  pennies.  Prove  that
your algorithm yields an optimal solution.

makeChange(n):
    changeValues(25, 10, 5, 1)
    changeBucket(4)

    for each quant in changeValues:
        if n // quant != 0:
            changeBucket[0] += n // quant
            n -= quant * n // quant

This algorithm takes the most amount of large cent peices it can out of the total at any given step.

This algorithm is optimal in this situation because each of the larger coins can be made up from a sum of
each of the smaller coins. This means that at every step, it is always more efficient to take out the largest
amount possible with the largest coin denomination, since any other choice is a sum of a larger number of smaller
coins.